README.md, before:

# bhima-test-e2e
Setup files for the BHIMA End-to-End test server

## Install the Ubuntu/Debian OS
- Note: If the installation is on bare metal, either Ubuntu LTS Desktop or Debian will work.
  But if you are running on a container, there may be difficulties with installing snap
  versions of `mysql-server` on Ubuntu, so use Debian instead.
- Install zip (sudo apt install zip); it is needed by the 'run_tests' script

## Install Docker
- Install regular Docker: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/

## Set up the jenkins user
(Substitute 'jenkins' or your choice of username for `<user>`)
- `sudo adduser <user>`
- `sudo usermod -a -G docker <user>`
- `sudo usermod -a -G sudo <user>`

## Set up the Jenkins test agent files
- CLONE THIS REPOSITORY in the `<user>` account
  - log in as `<user>` (you may need to 'su <user>' to do this)
  - `cd /home/<user>`
  - `git clone git@github.com:Third-Culture-Software/bhima-test-e2e.git builds`
  - `ln -s /home/<user>/builds/run_tests . `

## Set up BHIMA
- log in as `<user>` (you may need to 'su <user>' to do this)
- `cd /home/<user>/builds`
- clone the Bhima repo from IMA World Health
   - `git clone https://github.com/Third-Culture-Software/bhima.git Bhima`
   - See [Dev Install Docs](https://docs.bhi.ma/en/for-developers/installing-bhima.html)
   - Set up an appropriate .env file with db passwords, etc (see .env.sample)
   - Verify tests run manually before proceeding (fix any configuration issues)
     - `npm install`
     - `npm run test:clean`
     - `npm run test`
     - `npm run test:e2e-account`

## Set up the jenkins server agent as a docker image
- https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/using/using-agents/
- https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/12/27/run-jenkins-agent-as-a-service/

- RUN THE TESTS (like Jenkins will)
  - `cd <user>`
  - Test it: `./run_tests`

## Note:
- Early attempts to run the tests in a Docker container were not succesful.  Those files have been moved to the 'docker' folder.  Files and scripts for Docker containers are in the 'docker' folder.

Commit message:

Enable optional testing with pull requests

README.md, after:

# bhima-test-e2e
Setup files for the BHIMA End-to-End test server

## Install the Ubuntu/Debian OS
- Note: If the installation is on bare metal, either Ubuntu LTS Desktop or Debian will work.
  But if you are running on a container, there may be difficulties with installing snap
  versions of `mysql-server` on Ubuntu, so use Debian instead.
- Install zip (sudo apt install zip); it is needed by the 'run_tests' script

## Install Docker
- Install regular Docker: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/

## Set up the jenkins user
(Substitute 'jenkins' or your choice of username for `<user>`)
- `sudo adduser <user>`
- `sudo usermod -a -G docker <user>`
- `sudo usermod -a -G sudo <user>`

## Set up the Jenkins test agent files
- CLONE THIS REPOSITORY in the `<user>` account
  - log in as `<user>` (you may need to 'su <user>' to do this)
  - `cd /home/<user>`
  - `git clone git@github.com:Third-Culture-Software/bhima-test-e2e.git builds`
  - `ln -s /home/<user>/builds/run_tests . `

## Set up BHIMA
- log in as `<user>` (you may need to 'su <user>' to do this)
- `cd /home/<user>/builds`
- clone the Bhima repo from IMA World Health
   - `git clone https://github.com/Third-Culture-Software/bhima.git Bhima`
   - See [Dev Install Docs](https://docs.bhi.ma/en/for-developers/installing-bhima.html)
   - Set up an appropriate .env file with db passwords, etc (see .env.sample)
   - Verify tests run manually before proceeding (fix any configuration issues)
     - `npm install`
     - `npm run test:clean`
     - `npm run test`
     - `npm run test:e2e-account`

## Set up the jenkins server agent as a docker image
- https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/using/using-agents/
- https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/12/27/run-jenkins-agent-as-a-service/

- RUN THE TESTS (like Jenkins will)
  - `cd <user>`
  - Test it: `./run_tests`

## To run the tests on a branch
- Go to the Jenkins server GUI
- Click on the test suite manager (one level down from the Dashboard)
- Click on the "Build Executor Status" link (lower left)
- Select the node you want to use to test the pull request then
  edit its configuration (Click on the gear on the end of the line for the node)
- Under the "Node Properties", enable the "Environment variables" section
- Add an environment varible `PULL_REQUEST` and set its value to the number of the pull request
- Click on the [Save] button below
- To go back to testing master, delete the PULL_REQUEST environment varable and save

## Note:
- Early attempts to run the tests in a Docker container were not succesful.  Those files have been moved to the 'docker' folder.  Files and scripts for Docker containers are in the 'docker' folder.
